Version control
============

One of the core components of this course (besides learning programming)
is to learn how to use `version
control <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control>`__ with
`Git <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git_(software)>`__ and storing your
the codes (privately) in `GitHub <https://github.com/>`__.

`Git <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git_(software)>`__ is a version
control software (developped by a rather famous Finn named Linus
Torvalds - he also created Linux!) that is used to track and store
changes in your files (often source code for programs) without losing
the history of past changes. Files in Git are stored in a repository,
which you can simply think of as a directory containing files (or other
directories) related to a single 'project'. Git is widely used by
professionals to keep track of what theyâ€™ve done and to collaborate with
other people.

`GitHub <https://github.com/>`__ is a web based Git repository hosting
service and social network. It is the largest online storage space of
collaborative works that exists in the world. It is a place where you
can share your code openly to the entire world or alternatively only to
your collaborators working on the same project. GitHub provides a nice
web-interface to your files that is easy to use. It is a nice way for
exploring the codes and documentation or e.g., teaching materials such
as those in our course.

Both Git and GitHub provide many more features than the ones mentioned
here, but for now we are happy to understand the basic idea of what they
are.
